Introduction to Microsoft Azure Fundamentals
Completed
100 XP
2 minutes
Microsoft Azure is a cloud computing platform with an ever-expanding set of services to help you build solutions to meet your business goals. Azure services support everything from simple to complex. Azure has simple web services for hosting your business presence in the cloud. Azure also supports running fully virtualized computers managing your custom software solutions. Azure provides a wealth of cloud-based services like remote storage, database hosting, and centralized account management. Azure also offers new capabilities like artificial intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) focused services.

In this series, you’ll cover cloud computing basics, be introduced to some of the core services provided by Microsoft Azure, and will learn more about the governance and compliance services that you can use.

What is Azure Fundamentals?
Azure Fundamentals is a series of three learning paths that familiarize you with Azure and its many services and features.

Whether you're interested in compute, networking, or storage services; learning about cloud security best practices; or exploring governance and management options, think of Azure Fundamentals as your curated guide to Azure.

Azure Fundamentals includes interactive exercises that give you hands-on experience with Azure. Many exercises provide a temporary Azure portal environment called the sandbox, which allows you to practice creating cloud resources for free at your own pace.

Technical IT experience isn't required; however, having general IT knowledge will help you get the most from your learning experience.

Why should I take Azure Fundamentals?
If you're just beginning to work with the cloud, or if you already have cloud experience, Azure Fundamentals provides you with everything you need to get started.

No matter your goals, Azure Fundamentals has something for you. You should take this course if you:

Have general interest in Azure or in cloud computing
Want to earn official certification from Microsoft (AZ-900)
The Azure Fundamentals learning path series can help you prepare for Exam AZ-900: Microsoft Azure Fundamentals. This exam includes three knowledge domain areas:

AZ-900 Domain Area	Weight
Describe cloud concepts	25-30%
Describe Azure architecture and services	35-40%
Describe Azure management and governance	30-35%
Each domain area maps to a learning path in Azure Fundamentals. The percentages shown indicate the relative weight of each area on the exam. The higher the percentage, the more questions that part of the exam will contain. Be sure to read the exam page for specifics about what skills are covered in each area.

Introduction to cloud computing
Completed
100 XP
1 minute
In this module, you’ll be introduced to general cloud concepts. You’ll start with an introduction to the cloud in general. Then you'll dive into concepts like shared responsibility, different cloud models, and explore the unique pricing method for the cloud.

If you’re already familiar with cloud computing, this module may be largely review for you.

Learning objectives
After completing this module, you’ll be able to:

Define cloud computing.
Describe the shared responsibility model.
Define cloud models, including public, private, and hybrid.
Identify appropriate use cases for each cloud model.
Describe the consumption-based model.
Compare cloud pricing models.

You may have heard of the shared responsibility model, but you may not understand what it means or how it impacts cloud computing.

Start with a traditional corporate datacenter. The company is responsible for maintaining the physical space, ensuring security, and maintaining or replacing the servers if anything happens. The IT department is responsible for maintaining all the infrastructure and software needed to keep the datacenter up and running. They’re also likely to be responsible for keeping all systems patched and on the correct version.

With the shared responsibility model, these responsibilities get shared between the cloud provider and the consumer. Physical security, power, cooling, and network connectivity are the responsibility of the cloud provider. The consumer isn’t collocated with the datacenter, so it wouldn’t make sense for the consumer to have any of those responsibilities.

At the same time, the consumer is responsible for the data and information stored in the cloud. (You wouldn’t want the cloud provider to be able to read your information.) The consumer is also responsible for access security, meaning you only give access to those who need it.

Then, for some things, the responsibility depends on the situation. If you’re using a cloud SQL database, the cloud provider would be responsible for maintaining the actual database. However, you’re still responsible for the data that gets ingested into the database. If you deployed a virtual machine and installed an SQL database on it, you’d be responsible for database patches and updates, as well as maintaining the data and information stored in the database.

With an on-premises datacenter, you’re responsible for everything. With cloud computing, those responsibilities shift. The shared responsibility model is heavily tied into the cloud service types (covered later in this learning path): infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). IaaS places the most responsibility on the consumer, with the cloud provider being responsible for the basics of physical security, power, and connectivity. On the other end of the spectrum, SaaS places most of the responsibility with the cloud provider. PaaS, being a middle ground between IaaS and SaaS, rests somewhere in the middle and evenly distributes responsibility between the cloud provider and the consumer.

The following diagram highlights how the Shared Responsibility Model informs who is responsible for what, depending on the cloud service type.

Diagram showing the responsibilities of the shared responsibility model.

When using a cloud provider, you’ll always be responsible for:

The information and data stored in the cloud
Devices that are allowed to connect to your cloud (cell phones, computers, and so on)
The accounts and identities of the people, services, and devices within your organization
The cloud provider is always responsible for:

The physical datacenter
The physical network
The physical hosts
Your service model will determine responsibility for things like:

Operating systems
Network controls
Applications
Identity and infrastructure

What are cloud models? The cloud models define the deployment type of cloud resources. The three main cloud models are: private, public, and hybrid.

Private cloud
Let’s start with a private cloud. A private cloud is, in some ways, the natural evolution from a corporate datacenter. It’s a cloud (delivering IT services over the internet) that’s used by a single entity. Private cloud provides much greater control for the company and its IT department. However, it also comes with greater cost and fewer of the benefits of a public cloud deployment. Finally, a private cloud may be hosted from your on site datacenter. It may also be hosted in a dedicated datacenter offsite, potentially even by a third party that has dedicated that datacenter to your company.

Public cloud
A public cloud is built, controlled, and maintained by a third-party cloud provider. With a public cloud, anyone that wants to purchase cloud services can access and use resources. The general public availability is a key difference between public and private clouds.

Hybrid cloud
A hybrid cloud is a computing environment that uses both public and private clouds in an inter-connected environment. A hybrid cloud environment can be used to allow a private cloud to surge for increased, temporary demand by deploying public cloud resources. Hybrid cloud can be used to provide an extra layer of security. For example, users can flexibly choose which services to keep in public cloud and which to deploy to their private cloud infrastructure.

The following table highlights a few key comparative aspects between the cloud models.

Public cloud	Private cloud	Hybrid cloud
No capital expenditures to scale up	Organizations have complete control over resources and security	Provides the most flexibility
Applications can be quickly provisioned and deprovisioned	Data is not collocated with other organizations’ data	Organizations determine where to run their applications
Organizations pay only for what they use	Hardware must be purchased for startup and maintenance	Organizations control security, compliance, or legal requirements
Organizations don’t have complete control over resources and security	Organizations are responsible for hardware maintenance and updates	
Multi-cloud
A fourth, and increasingly likely scenario is a multi-cloud scenario. In a multi-cloud scenario, you use multiple public cloud providers. Maybe you use different features from different cloud providers. Or maybe you started your cloud journey with one provider and are in the process of migrating to a different provider. Regardless, in a multi-cloud environment you deal with two (or more) public cloud providers and manage resources and security in both environments.

Azure Arc
Azure Arc is a set of technologies that helps manage your cloud environment. Azure Arc can help manage your cloud environment, whether it's a public cloud solely on Azure, a private cloud in your datacenter, a hybrid configuration, or even a multi-cloud environment running on multiple cloud providers at once.

Azure VMware Solution
What if you’re already established with VMware in a private cloud environment but want to migrate to a public or hybrid cloud? Azure VMware Solution lets you run your VMware workloads in Azure with seamless integration and scalability.

Describe the benefits of high availability and scalability in the cloud
Completed
100 XP
5 minutes
When building or deploying a cloud application, two of the biggest considerations are uptime (or availability) and the ability to handle demand (or scale).

High availability
When you’re deploying an application, a service, or any IT resources, it’s important the resources are available when needed. High availability focuses on ensuring maximum availability, regardless of disruptions or events that may occur.

When you’re architecting your solution, you’ll need to account for service availability guarantees. Azure is a highly available cloud environment with uptime guarantees depending on the service. These guarantees are part of the service-level agreements (SLAs).

This short video describes Azure SLAs in more detail.


Scalability
Another major benefit of cloud computing is the scalability of cloud resources. Scalability refers to the ability to adjust resources to meet demand. If you suddenly experience peak traffic and your systems are overwhelmed, the ability to scale means you can add more resources to better handle the increased demand.

The other benefit of scalability is that you aren't overpaying for services. Because the cloud is a consumption-based model, you only pay for what you use. If demand drops off, you can reduce your resources and thereby reduce your costs.

Scaling generally comes in two varieties: vertical and horizontal. Vertical scaling is focused on increasing or decreasing the capabilities of resources. Horizontal scaling is adding or subtracting the number of resources.

Vertical scaling
With vertical scaling, if you were developing an app and you needed more processing power, you could vertically scale up to add more CPUs or RAM to the virtual machine. Conversely, if you realized you had over-specified the needs, you could vertically scale down by lowering the CPU or RAM specifications.

Horizontal scaling
With horizontal scaling, if you suddenly experienced a steep jump in demand, your deployed resources could be scaled out (either automatically or manually). For example, you could add additional virtual machines or containers, scaling out. In the same manner, if there was a significant drop in demand, deployed resources could be scaled in (either automatically or manually), scaling in.


Describe the benefits of reliability and predictability in the cloud
Completed
100 XP
2 minutes
Reliability and predictability are two crucial cloud benefits that help you develop solutions with confidence.

Reliability
Reliability is the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function. It's also one of the pillars of the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework.

The cloud, by virtue of its decentralized design, naturally supports a reliable and resilient infrastructure. With a decentralized design, the cloud enables you to have resources deployed in regions around the world. With this global scale, even if one region has a catastrophic event other regions are still up and running. You can design your applications to automatically take advantage of this increased reliability. In some cases, your cloud environment itself will automatically shift to a different region for you, with no action needed on your part. You’ll learn more about how Azure leverages global scale to provide reliability later in this series.

Predictability
Predictability in the cloud lets you move forward with confidence. Predictability can be focused on performance predictability or cost predictability. Both performance and cost predictability are heavily influenced by the Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework. Deploy a solution built around this framework and you have a solution whose cost and performance are predictable.

Performance
Performance predictability focuses on predicting the resources needed to deliver a positive experience for your customers. Autoscaling, load balancing, and high availability are just some of the cloud concepts that support performance predictability. If you suddenly need more resources, autoscaling can deploy additional resources to meet the demand, and then scale back when the demand drops. Or if the traffic is heavily focused on one area, load balancing will help redirect some of the overload to less stressed areas.

Cost
Cost predictability is focused on predicting or forecasting the cost of the cloud spend. With the cloud, you can track your resource use in real time, monitor resources to ensure that you’re using them in the most efficient way, and apply data analytics to find patterns and trends that help better plan resource deployments. By operating in the cloud and using cloud analytics and information, you can predict future costs and adjust your resources as needed. You can even use tools like the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) or Pricing Calculator to get an estimate of potential cloud spend.